Patte Conservation Initiative

VISION 
A thriving Patte community living in harmony with a healthy, resilient, and productive marine ecosystem.

MISSION
To empower the Patte community to sustainably manage and conserve their marine resources through the establishment and effective management of the community conservation areas, improving livelihood, safeguarding biodiversity, and enhancing the overall well-being of the community.

CBO name is PATTE CONSERVATION

ONGOING PROJECTS: 
1- Iweni locally Managed Marine Area(coral restoration, awareness campaign on environmental conservation, eco-tourism(snorkelling, diving, sea adventure) 

FUTURE PLANS: 
1:- Advocacy on marine life, mangrove and sea weed planting.

Email: iwenilmma@gmail.com

PURPOSE
The purpose of Patte Conservation is to improve the quality of life of its community members through undertaking developmental projects and programs on environmental conservation initiatives. As a result, the CBO intends to establish a Locally managed Marine Area (LMMA) to foster a sustainable and equitable marine ecosystem that benefits both the environment and local communities. This will be achieved through collaborative management by the community of Pate, Shanga Ishakani and Shanga Rubu, to preserve coral reef health, promote biodiversity, and support sustainable livelihoods, the LMMA will contribute to food security, economic development, and community well-being while ensuring the long-term viability of marine resources.

The CBO consist of 10 members and 3 comes from Shanga Ishakani village, 3 from shanga Rubu village and 4 comes from Pate village, so its a collaborative initiative trying to conserve marine ecosystems, awareness on marine since they mostly depend on marine(fishing) , so we're trying to introduce sustainable usage of resources since human population is increasing now and marine production has decreased.

CORAL RESTORATION PROJECT
Coral Restoration Partnership
In partnership with The Ocean Trust Organization, our community has taken an active role in coral reef restoration efforts.
Through this collaboration:

- Local community members are directly engaged in restoration activities.
- Skills, knowledge, and tools are shared to empower people in marine conservation.
- Together, we are helping rebuild vibrant coral ecosystems that support biodiversity and livelihoods.

OUR PARTNERS
The Ocean Trust Organization
We are honored to work alongside The Ocean Trust Organization in a joint effort to restore coral reefs. This partnership ensures that restoration is community-driven, with local people at the heart of every activity.

Donations are still accepted to support our marine conservation mission.